---
title: 'Software Development Lifecycle'
author: Richard Koranteng
date: 2025-01-01 15:00:00 -0600
description: basic explanation software development lifecycle
categories: [Modern DBA Project,Agile]
tags: [training]
img_path: /assets/screenshots/agile-transformation
image:
  path: sdlc.png
  width: 100%
  height: 100%
  alt: credit - bigwater.consulting
---

## What is SDLC?
It's safe to say that modern businesses are software driven, therefore they need a fast, easy, and reliable way to build + deliver their software. This is the goal of SDLC.

- The Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) is a structured process that enables the production of high-quality, low-cost software, in the shortest possible production time. 
- The goal of the SDLC is to produce superior software that meets and exceeds all customer expectations and demands. 
- The SDLC defines and outlines a detailed plan with stages, or phases, that each encompass their own process and deliverables.

## Why SDLC?
Over time, business needs demanded more tactical technology delivery models, thus sparking the beginnings of the SDLC.

Benefits of SDLC:
- Provides a standardized framework that defines activities and deliverables
- Aids in project planning, estimating, and scheduling
- Makes project tracking and control easier
- Improves client relations
- Decreases project management expenses and the overall cost of production

## SDLC Phases
- **Planning**: identify requirements and risks
- **Analysis**: define the best technical solutions
- **Design**: technical diagrams and workflows relevant to the product development
- **Implementation**: product is being built (coding)
- **Testing**: identy and resolve bugs
- **Maintenance**: product is released and supported to general public

## SDLC Models

There're more  than 50 recognized SDLC models, but none of them is perfect. Each brings its advantages and disadvantages for a specific software development project or a team. Here're some common SDLC models:

- Waterfall
- Agile
- Spiral
- V-Shaped
- Big Bang

